MTA-6893 Document Hub OIDC authentication (#382)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/mta-install/con_why-use-hub-oidc.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-07-31
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="why-use-hub-oidc_{context}"]
= Why use the Hub OIDC

[role="_abstract"]
The {ProductFullName} Hub implements an OpenID Connect (OIDC) standards-compliant provider that offers local user authentication and federation to other providers.

The {ProductShortName} Hub OIDC provider offers the following advantages:

* Provides you with an option to remove Keycloak dependency to configure users, roles, and permissions. To use Keycloak, you must provision and manage more infrastructure resources.
* Simplifies role-based access control (RBAC) deployment by allowing you to manage users, default and custom roles, and permissions in the {ProductShortName} application.
* Provides you with an option to integrate Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) or federate to another Identity Provider (IdP).
* Provides a permanent list of immutable permissions that map to specific API resources and operations. This ensures authorization works consistently across deployments and simplifies security audits.

> * Allows tasks and add-ons access to the {ProductShortName} Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) through Personal Access Tokens (PATs) with fine-grained permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An option to remove the Keycloak dependency for configuring users, roles, and permissions. Without Keycloak, you do not need to provision and manage extra infrastructure resources.
* Simplified role-based access control (RBAC) deployment that allows you to manage users, default and custom roles, and permissions in the {ProductShortName} application.
* An option to integrate LDAP or federate to another identity provider (IdP).
* A permanent list of immutable permissions that map to specific API resources and operations. This list ensures that authorization works consistently across deployments and simplifies security audits.
* Task and add-on access to the {ProductShortName} application programming interfaces (APIs) through personal access tokens (PATs) with fine-grained permissions.
```
